week3/MAKEME.md, before:

# Homework React Week 3

## **Todo list**

1. Practice the concepts
2. React exercises
3. Code along
4. PROJECT: Hack Your Weather III

## **1. Practice the concepts**

This week we'll practice some (hopefully) familiar concepts, with some online exercises. Do the exercises from `Introduction to the React Challenges` until `Access Props Using this.props`:

- [FreeCodeCamp: exercise 1-20](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/front-end-libraries/react/)

## **2. React exercises**

> Inside of your `React` fork, go to the `week3` folder and create a folder called `react-exercises`. For each exercise create a new folder (call it `exercise` follwed by the right number) and create 3 files: and `index.html`, `script.js` and `style.css`.

**Exercise 1**

**Exercise 2**

**Exercise 3**

## **3. Code along**

In the following tutorial you'll learn how to make

- [Build a Recipe App With React](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U9T6YkEDkMo)

## **4. PROJECT: Hack Your Weather III**

> Every week ends with a project you have to build on your own. Instead of getting clear-cut instructions, you'll get a list of criteria that your project needs to measure up to.

> Before you start, create a new folder called `project` that includes the files for the following app you'll be building.

## **SUBMIT YOUR HOMEWORK!**

After you've finished your list it's time to show us what you got! Upload all your files to a forked repository (a copy from the original, which in this case is the [React](https://www.github.com/HackYourFuture/React) repository) using GIT. Then make a pull request to your teacher's forked repository.

If you need a refresher, take a look at the following [guide](../hand-in-homework-guide.md) to see how it's done.

The homework that needs to be submitted is the following:

1. React exercises
2. Project: Hack Your Weather III

_Deadline Saturday 23.59 CET_

Commit message:

added w3/4 project instructions, finished readings w3/4

week3/MAKEME.md, after:

# Homework React Week 3

## **Todo list**

1. Practice the concepts
2. React exercises
3. Code along
4. PROJECT: Hack Your Weather III

## **1. Practice the concepts**

This week we'll practice some (hopefully) familiar concepts, with some online exercises. Do the exercises from `Introduction to the React Challenges` until `Access Props Using this.props`:

- [FreeCodeCamp: exercise 1-20](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/front-end-libraries/react/)

## **2. React exercises**

**No exercises this week**

## **3. Code along**

In the following tutorial you'll learn how to make

- [Build a Recipe App With React](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U9T6YkEDkMo)

## **4. PROJECT: Hack Your Weather III**

> Make sure you're building on last week's codebase.

The main additions you'll add this week is to (1) keep adding to the list of already searched cities and (2) allow users to remove a city from previous search result.

### 1. Requirements

By the end of this week's assignment your application should look similar to this:

![Week 3 Wireframe](../assets/project/week3.png)

Here are the requirements your project needs to fulfill:

- Any time a user searches for a new city, add it to a list of already searched cities
- Allow a user to delete a search entry, by clicking the "X"
- Only allow a user to use the "Search City" button when the input field has at least 1 character

Hints:

- Think about what data structure makes most sense to use
- Make use of `filter()` when removing cities

## **SUBMIT YOUR HOMEWORK!**

After you've finished your list it's time to show us what you got! Upload all your files to a forked repository (a copy from the original, which in this case is the [React](https://www.github.com/HackYourFuture/React) repository) using GIT. Then make a pull request to your teacher's forked repository.

If you need a refresher, take a look at the following [guide](../hand-in-homework-guide.md) to see how it's done.

The homework that needs to be submitted is the following:

1. Project: Hack Your Weather III

_Deadline Saturday 23.59 CET_
